The next section we're gonna be talking
about is running Docker Images with
Docker, and you'll see that this
is about 100 million times easier.
So the first thing that we're gonna
learn how to do is use Docker run.
So Docker does quite a few
different things for you.
But honestly, for most people that I
imagined will be taking this course,
Docker run is the part that
you actually care most about.
Most of us probably won't be
building containers by hand and
managing all that kind of stuff.
Typically, a lot of times
the ops teams will handle that.
And as like developers,
you might be more interested in running
containers than actually building them.
But who knows?
I'm not your mom,
you can do whatever you want.
So we're gonna do this.
We're gonna run a Docker alpine container.
And we've kinda been
doing this already and
I've just been kind of like saying
don't peek behind the curtain yet.
Now we're gonna peek behind the curtain.
So I'm gonna come back here to vs code.
I'm here in MacOS.
And I'm gonna say Docker
run--interactive--tty.
Yep, I can can ever remember, run.
And then at that point,
once you've done this,
you can run basically anything
that you want to run.
In this particular case,
I want to run let's say,
Alpine, right, which is a flavor of Linux.
I'm gonna say Alpine.
And this is what's coming
off of Docker Hub right?
Which is what we were
looking at previously.
Now I could say Docker run Alpine, and
this would implicitly run :latest, right?
Which would be the latest version
that they've published, right?
Now I'm going to suggest
that you never use latest.
It's just kind of a foot gun.
And in particular, since people
will be watching this course later,
I'm gonna be very explicit about
the versions that I'm using,
cuz I want these demos to work for
you with code that I've written.
So I'm gonna say 3.10, which I think
is one of the more recent ones.
Now if you haven't installed this or
pulled this previously,
it'll take a second say downloading all
these layers and it'll take a second.
I think Alpine,
the final image ends up being like,
20 some odd megabytes,
something like that.
And that's the point of alpine.
Alpine is like a tiny Linux,
it has the barebones and
the necessity for running web services,
stuff like that, and nothing else.
And I think we'll get more into that later
there's a whole section just talking
about Alpine.
But again, you can say cat, etc, issue,
and we can see, welcome to Alpine Linux
3.10, that's expected given
that we asked for Alpine 3.10.
Now this probably seems a little bit
easier than what we were doing before
which is like exporting and
doing control groups and on shares.
This just did all of that for you.
So we just spent,
I don't know, couple hours going
over what one command does for you.
I don't know how you feel about that.
But that's honestly what happened.
This is a little bit easier to do,
a little bit easier to remember than all
the control groups and
the shares and stuff like that.
All right, so I'm gonna hit exit.
That'll exit us out of the container.
And again, to remind you, containers
are made to be, the entire idea behind
Docker containers in general is that
they're made to be spun up and destroyed.
And frequently do that.
The tournament uses their ephemeral
rights but they do not last very long.
So nothing like when you
are dealing with Docker containers,
if it is not in the Docker file,
just assume nothing is permanent.
So that is kind of a good way of thinking
so if you are running a database without
a volume and ignore volumes for
just a second.
But if you say, if you're running
all of your databases with Docker,
as soon as you close down those Docker
containers, your data goes with it.
So you have to mitigate that kinda stuff.
So I'm gonna show you
just a little shortcut,
because --interactive-tty,
kind of hard to remember it.
You can just say docker run -it, right?
And what this -it does is it puts you
interactively into the container.
So if I say alpine:3.10 again,
that's what that -it does.
Now if I just say Docker run Alpine 3.10,
just gonna say, okay, so
what it did is it ran Alpine is like okay,
I did it and then it finished right?
So that's what the -it is like no,
no hold on to it I want to
actually connect to it right.
Now I can say Docker run Alpine 3.10 and
I can actually give it a command
to execute first before finishes.
So if I say ls, it's gonna go in, it's
gonna run ls, and then it's gonna finish.
So this is what the ls is of
wherever it is in the container,
which looks like it's the root, right?
So that's what that last part is and the
order here actually is very critical for
Docker.
So you do Docker, then you do the command.
Then the next part here.
Like that has to be all of your flags,
right,
the -it, the --RM,
all that kind of different stuff.
And then you put the name
of the container, and
then everything after the name of
the container is whatever you want to run.
And again, if you don't put the LS here,
the container has some sort of
command baked into it, right?
And so it'll run that.
Unless you tell it to do something else.
It's the CMD, right?
That's what they call it.
Okay.
So just we can say,
Docker run Alpine cat /etc/issue, right?
And you'll see here that
this is Alpine Linux.
What happens if we change
alpine:3.10 to ubuntu:bionic?
There you go, it has Ubuntu 18.04, right?
Right, which is what we would expect.
So you can see here we can swap out
anything that we want as long as it's on
Docker Hub or we built it locally.
So I'm gonna give you a warning here,
since I'm thinking about it.
It's very easy to get a lot of
images on your computer and
have Docker take up like a,
three gigabytes just in images, right?
So I think if you do Docker prune images
or images prune, Docker image prune,
Docker image prune, like that,
and that'll clear up.
Like if you've been running Docker for
a for a while,
this will probably clear up
a decent amount of space for you.
But again, you'll have to rebuild
everything next time that you download it.
All right, so, still here on
the Docker images with Docker.
I'm gonna say Docker.
Run, and we're gonna say -it but
we're gonna put it in
this new flag --detach
ubuntu:bionic and
this is gonna run something.
It's gonna split up the hash which is
the hash of the container of that's
currently running.
And then it completes but this container's
now actually running in the background.
And that's what detach does and
says like hey run this but
I don't wanna be in the foreground
I want it to run in the background.
So now I have a container
running in the background.
So if I say Docker ps, I can see
here I actually have two running.
I still had that my Alpine one running
from my previous example, right?
So you can see this has been running for
34 minutes.
This has been running for 18 seconds.
Now I can say, Docker attach.
And then I can just copy and paste that.
I didn't give this one a name so
I can't attach to any specific name.
Actually, you can give the ones stupefied.
Brattain, I already know that is,
let's do it.
So if I do that, this will actually
attach me to the running process, right?
So now if I say a cat/ etc/ issue,
you can see now I'm inside of Ubuntu.
If I exit, It's actually gone now
because I told it to exit, right?
But I don't want this running in
the background cuz this is just wasting
resources in the background,
so how do I kill it?
Docker kill.
I guess it kind of showed
my cards on that one.
So you can say Docker kill and
you can give it the container ID.
You can give it the short one.
You can give it the long one.
The long one looks like that.
Or you can give it the name, right?
So in this case,
I'm gonna say Docker kill my-alpine.
Now if I say Docker PS, totally empty.
Two of these things that you have already
seen before is if I say Docker run -it,
you see me put name here, right?
So like I did my -Alpine, right.
The reason why is I wanted to be
able to reference that later, right?
So if I say alpine:3.10.
Now if I go back to my
other running thing here.
If I say Docker ps you can see here
that it has the name of my-alpine.
This just makes it easy
later to reference, right?
So now I can say Docker kill my-alpine.
Now my issue here,
if I tried to do this again,
it's gonna say I can't do that,
that one's already in use.
Why is that?
Well, I can actually still look
at the Docker logs of my Alpine,
it keeps it around because it seems like
I don't wanna throw anything away here.
This is obviously garbage,
it doesn't matter, right?
But if I had a long list of things,
it keeps those logs around just in
case you wanna check them afterwards.
And there's a bunch of introspection you
can do after the fact of that container
has completed.
In this case obviously,
this is garbage, I don't want it.
So I'm gonna say Docker remove my-alpine.
So now, it's thrown everything away
that was using that before and
now I can go back and do that again and
it would run Docker alpine this time.
>> So when you use scale
you just stop the process.
You just stop the container.
But then this is how
you remove it entirely.
>> Right.
It removes all like the post meta data and
all that kind of stuff that
it kept around for it.
That's frequently useful, right.
So that's why it does that by default.
But in this particular case,
I'm creating and
destroying containers and
I wanna reuse that name quickly.
So if I just put --rm here, it'll remove
everything once it's done, all right?
So if I do this exit, and I come out right
again, now I can keep doing that quickly.
So that's what --rm is, you'll see
me do a bunch because I'm lazy and
I don't wanna type Docker rm
afterwards and I forget all the time.